# Topografia della luce, Yvonne Weber, 2015
The interface of the devices we are using or have used—from television sets and record players to computer screens—in order to make experiences visible and tangible, should present a visual image on a set field. For her work Topografia della luce (Topography of light) the artist uses the lcd screen as her medium. By deconstructing the screen and removing the polarizing filter which is glued over the lcd element, the screen becomes a source of pure light. This gave her the opportunity to manipulate the white light issuing from the screen, by positioning a new polarizing filter in front of the lcd element on two discs rotating over the lcd screen. This experiment aims to explore the relationship between the lcd element and the polarizing filter, a device designed to aesthetically calibrate light. The pattern created by the rotating Plexiglas discs is generated by coded algorithms as well as the visualization on the screen. Apart from the polarizing filter, the adjustable parameters are:
– two dc motors (direction of rotation, one rotation per second) controlled by an Arduino;
– one lcd element controlled by a Processing sketch on a computer with a regular os.
Every user can design a disc of his own. This model should be viewed as the basic element, encouraging interaction and inviting users to play with the work, exploring it and creating new scenarios. The contemporary image is no longer like a television, used as an “altar of distraction”, but an innovative, challenging creative instrument in its own right, which calls for interaction.
